One day i decided to take a walk and talk with God like i always used to. I
tried to clear my mind and asked, “Ok God, I usually do all the talking - what
would you like to tell me?” Then I got the question in my head: “What are your
priorities?” I answered, “To have a good time and to find a mate.” I thought
about that for a few minutes but didn’t understand why I got that question; I
started to doubt that it was from God. Towards the end of the walk I got an
urge and the instruction: “Take a break from programming in your free time this
week.” I’m a computer programmer. I have a good number of personal projects I
work on in my free time and I’m always thinking about them. I guess it was time
to take a break.

October 19, 2015: A few weeks went by and I found out that a friend of mine,
who was recently getting back into the faith, threw out all of his furniture
because “he valued it too much”. I thought this was kind of silly but it was
interesting. I went on another walk and thought about it: what does he hope to
gain by getting rid of his furniture? It reminded me of a couple of verses:
[Matthew 6:19-21][0] and [Matthew 19:21][1]. But I still didn’t get it. I made
my way back home and got ready for bed. I decided to check out the reading of
the day before falling asleep. I got goose bumps when I read it. It was [Luke
12:13-21][2]. God was trying to tell me something and it had to do with
relinquishing personal possessions.

October 24, 2015: My sister and I carpooled from Fargo back to home. She is one
of the most faithful people I know so during the drive, I told her about these
things that were going on and asked her, “Ok, so you get rid of all of your
stuff, then what? What do you gain by doing that?” She was quick to answer,
“The idea isn’t to not have stuff, it’s to keep your focus on God and not let
the earthly things you love get between you and loving Christ.” What she had
said about loving Christ reminded me of something Fr. Don, my favorite priest
we had growing up, had said at the end of the Cursillo event I attended the
previous year: “Getting to heaven is not the goal in life; loving Christ is.”

Not long after we got home, I decided to take another walk since it was so nice
out. “Ok, so apparently life’s goal is to love Christ. How do you go about
making that a real thing?” It wasn’t long before it hit me. I was doing it
right now, by going on these walks and talking with God. It made sense to me:
Fr. Don made a simple statement that had to apply to everyone there. It had to
be generic. Other people may love God in different ways but this was my way.
God built me to be a thinker, so I'm attracted to his wisdom. By seeking that
wisdom, I build a relationship with him. Plus, I get the wisdom and can share
it with people around me.

It was all coming together: God had asked me what my priorities are to make
myself aware of them. It became apparent to me that a focus on him was not at
the top of my list. I had my own desires first and my projects and possessions
second. When I was younger, it was different. I used to walk and talk with God
all the time but that slowly went away as I got older. I lost contact with him
and had forgotten so much of the wisdom I had gained. I realized this when my
mom had, out of the blue one day, decided to read me something she wrote down
that I had said; it was about pride and love. The whole time she was reading
it, I was thinking "I said that?". So this time I've decided to start writing
this stuff down. I think that keeping it like a journal is practical because I
can relay what I've learned in the context of how I learned it. Maybe one day
this can be helpful for other people too.


[0]: https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=MT+6%3A19-21&version=NASB
[1]: https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=MT+19%3A21&version=NASB
[2]: https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=LK+12%3A13-21&version=NASB
