I've noticed that humility is not just how I *appear* to be or act, but how I
*think* about myself and others. In [Luke 18:9-14][Luke 18:9-14], the two
people in parable don't even interact with each other.

He wants us to love others including those we despise ([Luke 6:27-36][Luke
6:27-36] [Mark 12:28-31][Mark 12:28-31], [John 13:34-35][John 13:34-35]). It
occurred to me that to love others I need to step out of myself and consider
their position; to try to understand why they feel the way that they do. I can
practice humility and mercy if I can catch myself when I think negatively about
someone else and honestly try to sympathise for them instead ([Luke
23:33-34][Luke 23:33-34]).


[Luke 18:9-14]: https://www.blueletterbible.org/nasb/Luke/18/9-14 "(NET) The Parable of the Pharisee and Tax Collector18:9 Jesus also told this parable to some who were confident that they were righteous and looked down on everyone else. 10 “Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. 11 The Pharisee stood and prayed about himself like this: ‘God, I thank you that I am not like other people: extortionists, unrighteous people, adulterers &#8211; or even like this tax collector. 12 I fast twice a week; I give a tenth of everything I get.’ 13 The tax collector, however, stood far off and would not even look up to heaven, but beat his breast and said, ‘God, be merciful to me, sinner that I am!’ 14 I tell you that this man went down to his home justified rather than the Pharisee. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted.” "
[Luke 6:27-36]: https://www.blueletterbible.org/nasb/Luke/6/27-36 "(NET) 6:27 “But I say to you who are listening: Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, 28 bless those who curse you, pray for those who mistreat you. 29 To the person who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other as well, and from the person who takes away your coat, do not withhold your tunic either. 30 Give to everyone who asks you, and do not ask for your possessions back from the person who takes them away. 31 Treat others in the same way that you would want them to treat you. 32 “If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. 33 And if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners do the same. 34 And if you lend to those from whom you hope to be repaid, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, so that they may be repaid in full. 35 But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing back. Then your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, because he is kind to ungrateful and evil people. 36 Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful. "
[Mark 12:28-31]: https://www.blueletterbible.org/nasb/Mark/12/28-31 "(NET) The Greatest Commandment12:28 Now one of the experts in the law came and heard them debating. When he saw that Jesus answered them well, he asked him, “Which commandment is the most important of all?” 29 Jesus answered, “The most important is: ‘Listen, Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. 30 Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength.’ 31 The second is: ‘Love your neighbor as yourself.’ There is no other commandment greater than these.” "
[John 13:34-35]: https://www.blueletterbible.org/nasb/John/13/34-35 "(NET) 13:34 “I give you a new commandment &#8211; to love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. 35 Everyone will know by this that you are my disciples &#8211; if you have love for one another.” "
[Luke 23:33-34]: https://www.blueletterbible.org/nasb/Luke/23/33-34 "(NET) 23:33 So when they came to the place that is called “The Skull,” they crucified him there, along with the criminals, one on his right and one on his left. 34 [But Jesus said, “Father, forgive them, for they don’t know what they are doing.”] Then they threw dice to divide his clothes. "
